---
icon: bullseye
title: Welcome to Zerothreat
description: Say hello to <strong><a href="https://zerothreat.ai/"   style="color:#9b26b6; text-decoration:underline; ">ZeroThreat</a></strong> — a cutting-edge security scanning platform to empower your application security initiatives. With many new exciting features, it has created buzz and excitement among developers and security experts.

---

Let’s explore more about this blazing-fast, dev-first, and innovative security testing tool in detail.

## ZeroThreat — A Next-Gen DAST Tool 

There are lots of DAST tools in the market with a variety of functionalities and use cases. However, when it comes to performance, precision, and versatility, most tools don’t stand a chance to get a green signal. This is why ZeroThreat was born, it’s developed for a speed-first world that accelerates security programs and reduces the overload of pen testers.

With an AI-driven intelligent crawler, ZeroThreat can scan even complex web apps and APIs in minutes without breaking a sweat. The built-in threat intelligence is designed to combat emerging threats proactively. On the bright side, it can even unearth hidden vulnerabilities lurking deep in your web apps or APIs that are often overlooked by other DAST tools.

## What is Special About ZeroThreat? 

Now that you have basic knowledge about ZeroThreat, it’s intriguing to know what makes it so special. Many factors are behind the selection of a DAST tool that puts it on the specials list. It requires high-caliber features to stand out from the rest.

ZeroThreat has many great features that make it a strong contender in its category. It comes with best-in-class functionality that raises the bar. Let’s check all the features that make it so special.

* **5X Faster Scanning:** While most vulnerability scanners out there take hours in security assessment, it takes minutes to discover vulnerabilities.
* **90.9% Accuracy:** You can achieve 90.9% accuracy and identify vulnerabilities most precisely.
* **Zero Configuration:** Scanning web apps and APIs doesn’t require any configuration or difficult steps.
* **Zero False Positives:** You can minimize the security risks with zero false positives and detect vulnerabilities that actually exist.
* **Prevent Session Hijacking:** Identify application weaknesses that could lead to session hijacking.
* **Priority-based Reporting:** Get reports with severity levels of different vulnerabilities to identify the critical risks quickly.
* **Next-Gen Spider:** With an AI-driven crawler, it is possible to detect even hard-to-find vulnerabilities.
* **Reduced Manual Pentest Efforts by 90%:** Precise reports and broad threat analysis help to reduce the time in manual pen testing.
* **Intuitive Dashboard:** Simple, decluttered, and easy-to-use dashboard makes vulnerability scanning a breeze.

### 1. Web App Security Testing 

You can benefit from comprehensive web app vulnerability scanning to detect, triage, and remediate vulnerabilities before they reach the production stage. With fast scanning speed, 90.9% accuracy, and zero configuration, you can find and fix vulnerabilities effectively while minimizing false positives. You can also get insights on compliance to meet regulatory standards like HIPAA, PCI DSS, SOC2, ISO27001, GDPR, and more.

It takes no time to start scanning and identify vulnerabilities beyond OWASP Top 10 and CWE Top 25. You can even identify out-of-band vulnerabilities, business logic flaws, zero-day vulnerabilities, and scan areas of web apps protected behind authentication. You can effectively manage your scanning requirements with easy scalability.

### 2. API Security Testing 

With fast, simple, and accurate API security testing, you can analyze your public or private APIs to ascertain their security. Scanning APIs (GraphQL, SOAP, and REST) is a painless process and enables you to uncover potential security risks affecting your API endpoints. However, discovering and cataloging APIs as well as mapping data flow is also a crucial step to build a stronger security posture.

ZeroThreat makes API testing easier by submitting OpenAPI/Swagger schema and even scans APIs with logins. It identifies loopholes to secure authentication and authorization with JWT, OAuth, and API keys. Anyone can utilize this tool to scan APIs as it requires no technical knowledge.

### 3. Secret Scanning 

With secret scanning, you can identify sensitive information like API keys, passwords, certificates, access tokens, and more to analyze their security. It helps to prevent unauthorized access to crucial information by identifying loopholes and preventing data exposure. You can avoid data theft with broad and deep analysis of secrets with keywords, high entropy patterns, and regular expressions. You can prevent data exposure in build and runtime with hardcore secret detection.

## How the Magic Works with ZeroThreat?

Whether you are a security expert or a novice tester, using ZeroThreat is a piece of cake. It doesn’t require technical knowledge or configuration and works in a single click. The following is a sweet and simple process of vulnerability scanning.

  - Sign in to the official site.
  - Enter the URL of your web app.
  - Verify domain ownership.
  - Start a security test.
  - Get detailed reports in minutes.
  - Remediate and Retest.


Voila! You have unlocked the power!

## ZeroThreat: A Revolution in Security Testing 

ZeroThreat is designed for modern AppSec teams that need a flexible tool to proactively redress security risks and ensure secure digital solutions. It offers the performance that DevOps teams need to match contemporary software development and deployment speed.

Its features like built-in threat intelligence allow it to unearth vulnerabilities that most of the other tools fail to detect. Security is a priority for organizations today with rising numbers and sophistication of cyberattacks. Having the right tools is critical to security.

ZeroThreat is indeed a top-notch tool for security testing that has some amazing features to reduce the burden of AppSec teams and improve their efficiency.
