---
hidden: true
noRobotsIndex: true
icon: lightbulb
title: Concepts
decription: 
---



## Domains

A Domain is an unique address where a website is hosted, and it is identified by several components: the domain name or IP address, the protocol, and the port number. Each of these elements can distinguish one domain from another. \
For example: `https://localhost` and `http://localhost` are considered different domains because they use different protocols: HTTPS and HTTP. Similarly, `http://localhost:8080` and `http://localhost:80` are different domains because they use different port numbers: 8080 and 80.

## Domain Verification

Domain Verification is a critical step because you must not scan a website without proper authorization from the owner. Before initiating a scan, it’s crucial to verify ownership of the domain to prevent unauthorized scanning. Domain verification ensures that you have the necessary permissions to test the target website or application, safeguarding ethical and responsible scanning practices. Verifying your domain helps prevent abuse and ensures compliance with security policies.

## Targets

A target is the URL of a web application or website you want to scan. It acts as the starting point for scanning and managing vulnerabilities. Examples of targets include:

* `https://app.example.com`&#x20;
* `http://example.com/app1`&#x20;
* `https://example.com`&#x20;

By default, all URLs within the same domain are included in the scan, while URLs from different domains are excluded. You can refine the scope to specific subdomains or paths, such as `https://admin.example.com` or `https://app.example.com/admin`, in the Target Configuration section.

For example:

If your application makes API calls from `https://app.example.com/admin` to `https://api.example.com`, these are considered within scope as they share the base domain (example.com). For external resources hosted on different domains, such as third-party APIs or payment gateways (e.g., `auth.example-auth.com` or `payments.thirdparty.com`), you can explicitly include them in the Allowed Hosts section to ensure a thorough scan.

This ensures all necessary resources, including APIs and third-party services, are analyzed for vulnerabilities.

## Scans

A **scan**, or vulnerability scan, is an automated process that identifies, analyzes, and reports security flaws within a web application. Using specialized tools, scans examine an application’s infrastructure and configurations to uncover potential risks like misconfigurations, exposed sensitive data, outdated software, or unpatched vulnerabilities.

The primary purpose of scans is to help organizations proactively identify weaknesses before attackers can exploit them, enabling timely remediation and improving overall security.

In **ZeroThreat**, the **Scans** section provides a comprehensive overview of all active and completed scans. From here, you can monitor the progress of ongoing scans and access detailed reports by simply clicking on a specific scan.

Additionally, the **Shared Scans** menu allows you to view scan reports shared by other users. This is particularly valuable in collaborative environments, where team members or clients can access relevant scan results without needing to initiate their own scans.

## Why ZeroThreat AI Chrome Extension?

Web applications often have sensitive areas, such as admin dashboards or user-specific pages, accessible only after login. These areas can harbor critical vulnerabilities, yet traditional web scanners struggle to assess them effectively due to their inability to navigate past authentication barriers or handle complex workflows.

ZeroThreat addresses this challenge with the **ZeroThreat AI Chrome Recorder extension**, enabling it to scan even the most protected sections of your application.

* **Seamless Authentication Handling**: Effortlessly records login sequences, ensuring scans can access secure areas without manual intervention.
* **Support for Complex Workflows**: Captures intricate navigation paths, such as multi-step forms or dynamic user interactions, to ensure every part of your application is tested.
* **MFA Compatibility**: Handles multi-factor authentication (MFA) scenarios with ease, allowing scans to penetrate deeper layers of application security.
* **Enhanced Accuracy**: By navigating protected areas, ZeroThreat ensures no vulnerabilities are missed, providing a comprehensive security assessment.

The ZeroThreat Chrome Recorder extension empowers security teams to analyze even the most restricted parts of web applications, leaving no blind spots and ensuring robust protection against vulnerabilities.&#x20;

## Organization

**Organizations** in ZeroThreat provide a structured way to group users, projects, and targets under a single entity, simplifying management. This setup allows you to efficiently assign roles, manage permissions, and define scopes, ensuring users have the right level of access to the resources they need.

You can create multiple organizations within a single account, each operating independently. This flexibility lets you customize settings and permissions for specific teams or projects.

For example, if a developer only needs access to start scans and view reports for a particular project, you can assign them a **Contributor** role within that project without granting full account access.



## Data Storage Location

Storage Location refers to the physical server where your scan data and user information are stored. Choosing the right storage location is vital, especially for organizations that must comply with regulations like GDPR, which mandate storing user data within specific geographic regions.

By selecting the appropriate storage location, you ensure your data is managed securely and in line with legal and compliance requirements.



## Why Configure Technology Stack?

Configuring the technology stack to match your application is crucial for accurate analysis and actionable insights. When you specify the technologies used in your application, **ZeroThreat AI** can generate detailed executive summaries and tailored remediation steps that align with your setup.

To get the best results, select the technologies that reflect your application’s stack. For example, if your application uses server-side technologies like PHP or ASP.NET, ensure you choose the corresponding options in both the Frontend and Backend dropdown menus. This allows the **ZeroThreat AI** to provide precise, relevant recommendations and improve the effectiveness of your scans.

***



Now that you’ve understood everything about the key concepts of security scanning your application with ZeroThreat, you’re ready to dive into action.&#x20;

Head over to [Quick Scan Guide](publish-your-docs.md "mention") to start your first scan.
